Q-1. What do you understand By Database?
Ans- A database is an organized collection of data, so that it can be easily accessed and managed.
You can organize data into tables, rows, columns, and index it to make it easier to find relevant information.

Q-2. What is Normalization? 
Ans- Normalization represents the way of organizing structured data in the database efficiently.it includes the creation of tables,
establishing relationships between them and defining rules for those relationships.inconsistency and redundancy can be kept in 
check based on these rules,hence,adding flexibility to the database.

Q-3. What is Difference between DBMS and RDBMS? 
Ans-                            
						DBMS												RDBMS

1. DBMS stands for Database Management System                  1. RDBMS is the acronym for the Relational Database Management system	
2. Data stored is in the file format						2. Data stored is in table format
3. Individual access of data elements			                          3. Multiple data elements are accessible together
4. No connection between data                                                        4. Data in the form of a table are linked together
5. There is normalisation                                                                   5. Normalisation is not achievable
6. Data redundancy is common                                                       6. Here, redundancy of data is reduced with the help of key and indexes in RDBMS
7. It supports single user.                                                                  7. It supports multiple users.
8. Ex. Oracle, SQL Server.	                                                             8. Ex. XML.


Q-4. What is MF Cod Rule of RDBMS Systems? 
Ans- Codd's twelve rules are a set of thirteen rules (numbered zero to twelve) proposed by Edgar F. Codd, a pioneer of the relational model 
for databases,designed to define what is required from a database management system in order for it to be considered relational, 
i.e., a relational database management system (RDBMS).


Q-5. What do you understand By Data Redundancy? 
Ans- Data redundancy occurs when the same piece of data exists in multiple places.


Q-6. What is DDL Interpreter? 
Ans- It processes the DDL statements into a set of table containing meta data (data about data).


Q-7. What is DML Compiler in SQL? 
Ans- It processes the DML statements into low level instruction (machine language), so that they can be executed. 


Q-8. What is SQL Key Constraints writing an Example of SQL Key Constraints 
Ans- Constraints are the rules that we can apply on the type of data in a table. That is, we can specify the limit on the type 
of data that can be stored in a particular column in a table using constraints. The available constraints in SQL are: NOT NULL:
This constraint tells that we cannot store a null value in a column.


Q-9. What is save Point? How to create a save Point write a Query? 
Ans- Savepoint is a command in SQL that is used with the rollback command.
It is a command in Transaction Control Language that is used to mark the transaction in a table.
Consider you are making a very long table, and you want to roll back only to a certain position in a table then; 
this can be achieved using the savepoint.
-SAVEPOINT SP1;
Savepoint created.
-ROLLBACK TO SP1;
Rollback completed.

Q-10. What is trigger and how to create a Trigger in SQL?
Ans- A trigger is a special type of stored procedure that automatically runs when an event occurs in the database server.
-create [or replace] trigger trigger_name
[before | After]
[insert [or] | update [or] | delete] on table_name
[referencing old as 0 new as n]
[for each row]
[declare <declare section> ]
begin
[exception]
end;

